ajrc

Name: Alberto Rigail

Assigment No: 4

Contribution:
I worked solo on this assignment, by coding the programs as indicated by the website specifications.  I was able to code a modularized system that is divided into two sections, the client and server.

- Server:
I started by looking at pennyserver.py from the programming with concurrent threads lecture, which contained many useful lines of code for this program. I used the functions consumeCpuTime, and handleClient, adapting them to the objects relevant to this program (course and class details). Since my assignment 2 was properly modularized, I could utilize most of the code from pennyserver.py quickly and efficiently. The cux of programming with concurrent threads is located in the main function at lines 131 and 132, where the server spawns a new process to handle a client request. Most of the other functionality is implemented as in assignment 2.

- Client:
The client code uses threads for concurrent programming, as opposed to processes. Once a relevant event occurs (search for courses or get a class' details), a new thread is spawned. The spawned thread communicates with the server by sending a request, reads and parses the response, and puts the relevant data on a global variable queue. On the main thread, every 1000 milliseconds the function pollQueue is activated, which gets a response from the queue, and displays the relevant changes in the user interface.

Combined, the server and client code make up a system that is modular and satisfies all the main and edge use cases described in the assignment page.


External help:
I received no external help in this assignment.

Sources referenced:
- the PennyThreads5 program from lecture
- Python documentation
https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html

Time spent in this assignment: 3.5 hours

My assessment:
This assignment helped me to truly understand concurrent threads and processes programming, in very little time. It was an efficient way to reinforce the lecture material, and I enjoyed coding this assignment. I think this assignment fits this course well, and I would recommend keeping it for future semester.